stocks plunge but why now in today's
video we're going to look at everything
that's been happening in the bond market
the stock market and how that affects
you directly you came here for the truth
so let me unveil that for you in today's
video we're going to begin with what's
going on in the bond market and why this
is historic it's huge even if you're not
investing in bonds or have no intention
on doing so these are the signals that
you've got to pay attention to once we
know that we will know how to thrive and
prosper sound good let's begin okay the
first thing I want to look at is that
something is breaking in the financial
markets here's what's behind the
sell-off and if you've been a viewer of
the money GPS for a while you're already
ahead of the game but look at what CNBC
is saying rates are expected to stay
higher for longer an idea the FED
officials have tried to get the market
to accept and which investors are only
now beginning to absorb getting used to
a more typical rate structure doesn't
sound like such a terrible thing but
after 15 years of living in an
unnaturally low rate regime normal
sounds well abnormal all of this has to
be assimilated and digested by the
market you can see that it's troubling
is difficult oh yeah it is when you're
so used to this when you've been told a
hundred times that rates would never go
up again then of course rates do go up
you're flabbergasted you're dumbfounded
you're in a space where it's Alice in
Wonderland but the reality of the
circumstances here on this channel were
that it was going to happen and yet over
and over again we were told by everybody
from top down the Federal Reserve the
analysts the YouTubers they were all
spitting the same message but you want
the truth and that's why you're here
let's go on you can see seasonal
weakness is pretty normal for the
markets in September and October yes
perhaps absolutely the threat to
equities is more along the interest rate
side we really need to get through the
bond sell-off and find some type of
equilibrium in the bond market before we
think stocks will find a bottom the
yield pulls a major headwind to equities
that's right specifically we'll talk
about which equities are the most
vulnerable I'll give that to you at the
end and the what can I do section but
you could see right here you've got
rates that have risen considerably at
least you know in this last while when
we were at zero for so long anything
seems like a high number when bond
yields rise stocks are less attractive
gold as well you might think way when
there's problems and gold is worth more
right well not necessarily because if
you're an investor in one of these
Financial companies and you're looking
at what you can do right now I want to
protect my wealth but if I think that a
bond is completely Fail-Safe it's
Bulletproof I can get five percent right
now so wouldn't I put my money there
versus gold which they say well I'm not
going to get any yield from it yeah I
can protect my wealth but I'm not going
to get any yield I need yield because
I'm going to lose that on stocks and so
at the same time you're seeing stocks
being less attractive what is the upside
for stocks in the next 12 months some
are saying well you know maybe not too
much right I might go up it might go
down but with the bond I can make five
percent five percent higher that's
pretty good so money is not necessarily
just crashing out of the stock market
and flowing in the bonds but some of
that money is going there that's what
we're seeing right now you've got to be
aware of that it's so important
okay
as interest rates rise the US dollar May
strengthen okay and so these are
floating against other currencies and
things but you got to understand that
that's what happens when an interest
rate rise when when they start to
increase interest rates generally it
makes the currency stronger and that's
what we've seen overall with the US
dollar higher and by the way that's real
good for anybody earning US dollars when
they're outside of the us all right I'll
tell you right now
love to see that higher rates are a big
risk to guess what growth stocks growth
stocks so watch that if you've got any
growth stocks these are the ones that
take the hit first so let me show you
some more details right now as we look
at this fasten your seat belts this
standard deviation of the Dow Jones
daily changes since 1896. so we're going
way back in October tends to be a you
know a month where you just get these
big swings but I wouldn't put too much
into that doesn't necessarily mean
anything but you look at it back to 1896
and it's a matter of fact
10-year and the 30-year treasury yields
rise to their highest level since 2007
so we know that this is historic we are
going to these levels right now where of
course you're going to see some very big
um you know moves you're going to see a
lot of hostility from investors and
certainly the volatility has risen
there's no question how 10-year treasury
yields treasuries could produce 20
returns according to UBS
now that's something that I mean that
would be shocking imagine 20 what would
that do to the stock market if you're
gonna get a treasury which is supposedly
seen as risk-free and you're going to
get 20 what do you think would happen
well of course you're going to get a lot
of money flowing into those and that by
the way would reduce the need for
another round of quantitative easing
because the government can print a whole
bunch of money or I should say do a lot
of spending and then they can issue
bonds knowing that they're going to have
buyers but they have to do that at a
very high rate so it's it is a balancing
act remember they've got an investor
somebody who's willing to buy their
bonds buy their debt you have to pay
them back at an increasingly higher rate
and as long as you have new people
coming in it could be manageable but
what has happened for the last while is
that that government needs to take on an
extreme amount of debt and they use the
Federal Reserve as the buyer of I don't
want to say it last resort but the buyer
of First Resort all right so that's
what's been happening and a change could
occur in the near future this is the
basically a channel and bonds had been
this is specifically the 10-year bond
and it was going down and down and down
and down
but more recently if you weren't aware
of this but a lot of these YouTubers
were saying no not going to break the
channel not going to increase you don't
have to worry about that and it did and
then it kept going and then it kept
going and they said don't worry it's not
going to go any higher it's going to
come back down and it kept going and
going and going okay so we have to
realize that trying to forecast in the
way that these models or guesses
depending on who you're looking at
uh the way that's being done is uh truly
flawed so here at this channel we use
something called the money mirror method
okay very different scenario banks are
bracing for a recession as treasury
yields search so the banks are very
concerned and this is a big problem for
them as we've seen with svb as we've
seen with all these other Banks earlier
on in 2023 they went under they were
invested at a time in which interest
rates were way down and now they're way
higher and now they have this big
differential in between you know their
assets they're trying to keep the
depositors how do you do that you give
them higher returns they can't keep up
with that there's a very fundamental
problem going on with banks right now I
am covering all of this I am tracking it
day to day I am spending time every
single day tracking what's happening
with these Banks if you want to know
more about this and you want to see
these failures before they rise to the
surface simply hit that Thumbs Up Button
And subscribe to the channel so that I
can bring you the latest and greatest
that's it all right
uh this right here is like if you want
to know the latest details about what's
happening inside of the stock market you
could see Seeking Alpha now Seeking
Alpha you've probably seen some like
free articles online that's that's
different this is the paid version which
I have it's the Seeking Alpha premium
they're Alpha picks like just to give
you a little bit of I should say a
little bit of respect to them that
they're Alpha picks you could see on the
right hand side their portfolio
alphabets 47 while the market has
returned 13 since they launched this
back in 2022. so they've done very well
I got to give them credit whereas
credits do if you're interested they so
the the portal that I have I I looked
into it just before I recorded this
video and it still shows the 50 off
coupon I guess they haven't started the
new sale so right now still 50 bucks off
uh which is a great deal check it out if
you want there's a page there you can
see the details Link in the description
below if you want to know about like
what are the best stocks to choose why
choose them if what more details about
the bond market how that affects stocks
so on link in description here we have
it you could see signs of stress in the
treasury market bond yields this is what
you got to know about bonds bond yields
move inversely to prices so Rising
yields means prices are falling and it's
very like upside down it's
counterintuitive but that's the way it
works the rise in yields to their
highest level since before the 2008
financial crisis have stirred up worries
that more Banks might fail like svb and
signature did back in March I've been
telling you this is the concern but
their whole theory was that no no no
we're not going in this direction the
yields are going to come down but here
we are
here we are today so I hope you get that
through your head that we've got to
start breaking out of this mold we've
got to expand our thinking like where
are you gonna live in this box and
you're going to be able to go on in the
near future here the world is changing
fast we need to thrive we need to
prosper and I want you to be with me
here okay because that's what we're
doing we're tracking all of this and
we're trying to make sure that you have
the best information possible with no
bias that's not what we do here all
right it's all about the info mortgage
rates rates towards eight percent after
hitting a high not seen since late 20 uh
2000 excuse me and you could look at
that eight percent on mortgages this is
going to crush people they're not going
to be able to afford these homes but
they're going to push themselves to the
absolute limits we know that consumers
should be spending less and yet as they
say right here interest rates are up
inflation remains High savings have
shrunk and the labor market is cooling
yet households are spending all of these
companies are increasing their prices at
the same time they're talking about the
fact that they don't have as many people
walking through the door in some cases
depending on on the type of business I
think overall yes you could have dollar
value equivalent spending but if you've
increased your prices by 50 percent it's
not necessarily equal so just be careful
of of how you're monitoring that I've
seen in many cases restaurants for
instance dine in on restaurants down
quite a bit people don't want to throw
you know 20 25 tips out there I mean
it's just just the way it goes so and
then we have this last thing Chipotle
tests automation for burrito bowls and
salads I've never seen a company do this
much like they're doing more automation
than all of the other companies it seems
so what are they doing they've got
Chippy the robot making the chips
they've got the the glass guacamole one
they've I mean ever now we have one for
burrito bowls this is obvious because
they don't want to pay what is now I
think in many areas 15 an hour that
minimum wage and so
certainly they are going for this all
the fast food restaurants are doing this
yes those are not glamorous jobs they're
still jobs they're going to be gone
robots are coming so you see what's
happening here oh they're going to start
laying off people no worries because
they won't be hired back by the time
things get better because there are
robots there are automation there are
other technologies that are coming
through that will be available whenever
the cycle starts coming back up so maybe
that's 20 24 2025 when things start
strengthening uh and what happens here
people will not have that work so you've
got to be prepared in events knowing
this information knowing the direction
it's going yeah you've got to take
action on this so we'll talk about that
um right here okay so you got to be
aware that we are still in a tightening
cycle this is the most important factor
we are in a tightening cycle they call
it quantitative tightening and so
there's a lot to that I understand but
quantitative tightening means that it's
just harder for the stock market to do
well it's harder for businesses to do
well during these times so it's like
fighting an uphill battle possible more
difficult you gotta understand okay
assets that do well in recessions are
important look for that if you're an
investor but also you a business owner
or just in general that the things that
have done well in previous Cycles are
the ones we should be paying attention
to
um you know it would surprise you it
would surprise you when you look at some
of these things but understand that the
the basics the essentials are going to
be more valuable than something that's
like hey this could be really great it's
a fantastic idea maybe at some point
you know not the environment we want to
be in right now
okay and then uh we're going to cut our
losses at this time where you see things
that just didn't work out it's okay it's
okay cut losses what the I said right
here shameful characters call that tax
loss harvesting oh yeah
look
you gotta admit when you're when you've
lost and that's okay there's nothing
wrong with that just take the L take the
loss and just move on Make It Happen
look if you want to get this stuff
sorted out right over here that's
Compass okay Compass is your this is
what it looks like this is your guide
this is where your financial Journey
Begins and so you go on here totally
free no email there's no ads there's no
nothing to sign up no cost you go in
there you start to get your financial
circumstance in order and you fix it
right away let's deal with it the
moneygps.com all right and then the
comment of the day I spoke to a bank
employee yesterday and they said that
they were closing for cash branches uh
many of them will do this well thank you
very much for your comment by the way uh
love all the comments I get
you will see more companies that are
going to have to close locations it's
retail it's Banks many many many
establishments are doing this they are
cutting costs they are cutting real
estate and we see that everywhere so we
got to be prepared for ourselves I hope
that I was informing you of a current
scenario what does it actually mean and
then of course what we can do about it
if you appreciate this information hit
that thumbs up button I appreciate you
for being here and I'll see you tomorrow
take care